# About JAK LINUX
Initially, JAK LINUX should be a distribution based on Debian GNU/Linux 4.0, but
no release happened. I moved my focus from building custom Debian disks to building
Debian packages, becoming a Debian Developer, developing software and other stuff.

This does not mean that the project has been canceled completely. There are plans
to create a JAK LINUX 1.0 in September 2008, based on Debian Lenny and suited at
Office Workstations and Home Desktops.

# About me
My name is Julian Andres Klode, I'm a Debian Developer and Ubuntu Member.

I'm also the primary developer of dir2ogg and ndisgtk, which I took over from
their previous authors. I'm also involved in the development of gnome-app-install,
primarily due to my role as its Debian Maintainer.

You can contact me via:

 * jabber at juliank@jabber.org
 * e-mail at jak@jak-linux.org
 * IRC, nickname juliank on networks FreeNode, OFTC, GimpNet.

You can also read my blog at <http://juliank.wordpress.com/>

# About this site
The JAK LINUX is powered by [ikiwiki](http://ikiwiki.info), a free wiki compiler.

The design used here is based on the design from <http://mentors.debian.net>, adjusted to ikiwiki's template
system. The full design will be released under the GPL in the next weeks.

Most of ikiwiki's functionality is not used, because jak-linux.org's hoster has no support for dynamic
websites and provides no ssh access. I'm currently looking for (v)servers running Debian with root
access via ssh, located in Germany. If possible, the server should be free. 

The hoster will be linked to on the JAK LINUX homepage and in the footer of all pages.
